In this video, we'll
look at the syntax for
declaring pointer variables.
You should not feel very comfortable
declaring variables, we've been
doing it throughout the course.
Well, we declare pointer
variables in exactly the same way
except that we add the asterisk
prior to the variable name.
In this context, the asterisk does not
function as a mathematical operator,
it serves to declare the pointer.
The way you read these
declarations is right to left.
So the first example int pointer
is a pointer to an integer, double
pointer is a pointer to a double.
Notice that in this declaration, I
place the asterisk next to the type.
Both styles are equivalent
and the compiler doesn't care.
But there's been a long-standing
argument among c++ programmers
about which is better.
I always declare my pointers with
the asterisk next to the name,
and that's how I'll do it in this
course, but I want it to make you
aware of the equivalent styles.
Char pointer is a pointer to a
character, and string pointer is
a pointer to a c++ string object.
Just like all variables, if we
don't initialize our variables,
they will contain garbage data.
In this case, all the
pointer variables declared,
contain garbage data.
So let's see how we can
initialize pointer variables.
In c++, it's very important that
you always initialize all pointer
variables before you use them.
If you don't initialize a pointer
variable, it will have garbage data.
In this case, that garbage data
represents an address since
that's what a pointer contains.
So you can think of an uninitialized
pointer as pointing anywhere.
So if we use it we could be
accessing memory that we have
no business messing around with.
We don't even know
what that memory is.
Initializing pointer variables
is just like initializing
non-pointer variables.
We can use an initializer list syntax.
In these examples, we're initializing
the pointer variables to zero
that's what null pointer represents
this means that we're initializing
the pointers to point nowhere.
That's very different
from pointing anywhere.
We can also initialize pointers to
actually point to a variable, and
we'll do that in the next video.
Let's review what we just
talked about since it's very,
very important to understand.
Always initialize all
pointer variables.
Uninitialized pointers contain
garbage data and point anywhere.
No pointer was introduced
in c++11, and it represents
address 0, which means that the
pointer is pointing nowhere.
Use null pointer to initialize
your pointers unless you initialize
them to a variable to a function,
this nulls out the pointer.
I know I've repeated myself
several times in this short video,
I'm doing that for a reason.
After a long career programming with
many languages that have pointer
variables, I can tell you that one
of the most common pointer-related
errors that I've seen in code
reviews is uninitialized pointers.
Most of the time this didn't
cause a problem, but the
potential for trouble is there.
So always initialize your pointers.
In the next video, we'll see
how we can access the address
of the pointer and store
addresses in pointer variables.